Technology Business Incubator (TBI) Workshop concluded at PEC | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Happenings
All Happenings
Music Club organises Chords
47th Annual Convocation
Traffic Awareness Human Chain
Interactive Session by Mr. Vikas Malhotra, Dy. General Manager, JK Cements
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Seminar By Mr. S.K. Aktar Ali Under the "Study In Europe - Information Session" Series
All Events
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) Workshop concluded at PEC
A two-day interactive Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was concluded successfully at PEC University of Technology which was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC (under TEQIP) from 28th November to 29th November 2016 for exchanging best practices between UK & India. It was coordinated by Ms. Madhuchhanda Mishra, Prosperity & Knowledge Economy Adviser, British Deputy High Commission Chandigarh, Dr. Anju Singla and Mr. Sudhendu Bali. The aim of the workshop was to share the best practices from established TBI managers, projects, ecosystems, real life approaches to challenges from the UK and Indian stakeholders.
Mr. David Lelliott OBE, British Deputy High Commissioner Chandigarh graced the occasion as the Chief Guest for the inauguration ceremony. Prof. Manoj K. Arora, Director, PEC University of Technology welcomed all the dignitaries along with the delegates from various institutes and industries in and around the city like IITs, INST, SASE, CSIR, Chitkara.
Mr. Martin Garratt, Chief Executive of Cambridge Cleantech and Mr. Karthik Durgaprasad, Senior International Development Ofiicer, Basildon Borough Council were the speakers for the sessions. Mr. Tamil Chandru, Science & Innovation Adviser, British High Commission introduced the speakers.
Mr. David Lelliott mentioned UK’s efforts to form a strong base for encouraging early- stage entrepreneurial activity with wide spread access to business support and mentoring programmes; the provision of entrepreneurial awareness schemes throughout the education sector; and good access to office space, and IT and broadband infrastructure.
Mr. Martin Garratt emphasized the importance of TBI and highlighted the fundamentals and best management practices for setting up a TBI. He quoted, “TBI is not just a building but the package of services which increases the chance of business survival and growth. Its business models include self-sustainable revenue streams, tenant profile and tenancy contracts.”
Mr. Karthik Durgaprasad shared his views on ‘Business Support and Strategic Partnerships’. He mentioned some of the business support services which act as glue to bind the incubator. He explained the jargons like hatchery, hot-house, cam-jelly, ignite, first Tuesday in the context of TBI. Further he stressed upon the international expansion of growth potential companies which have special focus on Smart City opportunities in India.
Various interactive sessions were held throughout the workshop elaborating the importance of working in a partnership, significance of space management, how to make an effective business plan: its Governance, registration & compliance and keys to success for the TBIs.
The participants were given an exercise on creating a short and long term “Sustainability Plan” which was presented and discussed at length in the next session. SWOT analysis of individual TBIs was done by the participants and the responses were shared.
Sh. Anurag Aggarwal, Home Secretary graced the valedictory function as the Chief Guest with his benign presence and emphasized that the City Beautiful Chandigarh deserves to be a Smart City. The Guest of Honour B. Purushartha, Commissioner discussed ideas for the development of an ecosystem for the entrepreneurs in Chandigarh. The closing remarks were given by David Lelliott.
All in all, the workshop ended on a high with the guidance on developing and growing a sustainable TBI which would create prosperity for all and positioned TBIs as the catalyst of the Indian start-up scene.
Top Stories
Project SCIC Inaugurated
Shri.V.P. Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator inaugurated Smart City Operations Centre on 25th June, 2017
SCIC Workshop
A workshop on Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) was organized by PEC University of Technology on 22nd February 2017
TBI Workshop
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC
All Top Stories
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement