History | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
History
PEC University of Technology (formerly Punjab Engineering College (PEC) having its roots in Lahore as Mugalpura Engineering College since 1921, moved to its present campus in 1953 as PEC affiliated to Panjab University. The institute became Deemed University in 2003 through a MHRD notification and rechristened as PEC University of Technology in 2009. It is a Grant-in-Aid institution under administration of Union Territory of Chandigarh, Government of India. The institute has a 146 acres sprawling and pious campus and is house of Chandigarh College of Architecture also. The academic and administrative processes are similar to IITs in the country. The institute governance is through a vibrant Board of Governors, chaired by a renowned industrialist, Sh Som Mittal. The institute is headed by a Director on 5 years tenure; a position, which is equivalent to Vice Chancellor of Universities. The institute offers 8 Undergraduate B. Tech. Programmes and 14 Post graduate M. Tech. Programmes in various disciplines of engineering and technology. After becoming University, the institute has also started PhD programme in various disciplines of engineering, science, management, humanities and social sciences. The admission to UG and PG programmes are made through national level examinations namely JEE (Mains) and GATE respectively. There are 9 academic departments and 2 centers of excellence. The faculty of academic departments and centers is involved in cutting edge research and development works. The institute collaborates very closely with research organisations, industries, alumni and other academic institutions both India and abroad, and has signed MoUs to pursue joint research in niche areas. The students graduating from this institute are placed in highly reputed companies with handsome salary packages. With a history of about 95 years now, the institute has produced a number of alumni who have earned name and fame both for themselves and the institute.
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement