Overview | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Research & Consultancy
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Advance Manufacturing Lab
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
Overview
PEC University of Technology imparts quality and socially relevant education in engineering at undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate levels. Faculty and students of its department are involved in research activities of interest to society and industry. Our curricula derive its strength from the design and project contents.
We strive to strengthen further our research programs as well our relationship with industry by supporting our faculty and students to work on sponsored research and industrial projects and consultancy. We encourage collaborative programs, which enhance interaction of our faculty and students with industry.
Sponsored projects, In-house projects, consultancy and collaborations with industry and academia are important modes through which our faculty and students contribute towards knowledge and technology. Our institute provides financial assistance to its faculty and students to present the outcome of their research projects in national and international conferences in India and abroad. Our faculty engaged in helping society offers short term courses as well training programs for industry, institutes and organizations. Office of Dean Sponsored Research & Industrial Consultancy provides administrative and managerial support for the operation of Sponsored research, In-house Projects, Consultancy and other activities of the institute. It promotes and manages Institute-Industry interaction and provides helping hand in establishing collaborative programmes of interest to Institute and Industry. Faculty and students are encouraged to take up hands on industrial problems as consultancy projects to enrich their problem solving skills.
The institute website provides information on its resources and activities. It is an opportune moment to invite potential Industries and other academic and research organizations to explore their relation with PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh.
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement