47th Annual Convocation | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Happenings
All Happenings
Music Club organises Chords
47th Annual Convocation
Traffic Awareness Human Chain
Interactive Session by Mr. Vikas Malhotra, Dy. General Manager, JK Cements
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Seminar By Mr. S.K. Aktar Ali Under the "Study In Europe - Information Session" Series
All Events
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
47th Annual Convocation
Video Coverage & Gallery
660 got Wings to Fly in Annual Convocation Ceremony
PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh hosted its 47th Annual Convocation Ceremony on Saturday, 14th October, 2017 at Indradhanush Auditorium, Sector 5, Panchkula. The Chief Guest for the ceremony was Sh. Senapathy (Kris) Gopalakrishnan, Chairman of Axilor Ventures and Co-Founder of Infosys.
To mark the beginning of the event, an Academic Procession was lead forward by Sh. Gopalakrishnan, Sh. Som Mittal, Chairman, Board of Governors, Prof. Manoj K. Arora, Director PEC, Sh. Manish Jindal, Registrar, PEC and other dignitaries. This was followed by the PEC Anthem after which Sh. Som Mittal Ji declared the convocation open.
Prof. Arora welcomed the BOG members, Senate members, dignitaries, faculty, staff and students, introduced the Chief Guest to the gathering and unveiled the Annual Report of PEC. His speech touched upon the matters of critical importance and highlighted the immense development that had taken place in terms of setting a precedent for academics, where whopping 76 percent have secured placements, while the rest opted for higher studies both in and outside India. He also emphasized on the vast opportunities that had been created for the students through avenues such as EIC, where the students were given a platform to kick-start their entrepreneurial career. He spoke at length about various awards and honours achieved by the faculty of PEC and research and development activities being conducted at the university. Shifting the focus to the technical and cultural societies, the Director discussed the growth of the clubs and societies through the active involvement of students and the achievements of the clubs and societies at competitions held across the country.
Sh. Som Mittal, Chairman, Board of Governors, addressed the audience next. He expressed his utmost gratitude towards the honourable Chief Guest for gracing the occasion with his presence. He extended his heartiest congratulations to the graduates and gave them guidance regarding the inevitability of change and its utmost importance in our lives. He spoke the golden words of encouragement and convinced the graduates to pursue all fields where they felt their skillset was put to adequate use. Lastly, he told that no matter which walk of life the graduates pursue, they must withhold the ideals of PEC and stand by the roots to uphold the legacy that make this institute one of the premier colleges in the country: hunger for knowledge, curiosity and above of all, humility.
Addressing the Convocation, the Chief Guest welcomed the gathering and congratulated the graduates and their parents. Sh. Gopalakrishnan spoke about his experiences with automation and the great potential it holds, especially in the Indian context. He talked to the graduates how the technology can bring change in their lives and careers. Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence development were featured heavily in his speech. He made the students aware about increasing level of competition. He concluded his address by guiding the fresh graduates to abide by strong work ethics to attain success in their future endeavours.
Degrees, gold medals and awards were bestowed upon as many as 660 graduates in the ceremony. Total 407 students received degrees across the eight B.Tech. programmes and 226 students received degrees across the fourteen M.Tech. programmes. In addition, 27 candidates were awarded Ph. D degrees. A number of meritorious students, including 8 gold medallists and 11 silver medallists, were also honoured during the ceremony. Students were also decorated with other awards, including Kalpana Chawla Memorial Gold Medal, Aditya Miglani Memorial Gold Medal, Charu Mehta Memorial Medal, Sarvnipun Chawla Memorial Award, Administrator’s Gold Medal, Advisor's Gold Medal and Charu Puri Award for their distinguished performance.
To mark an end to the auspicious ceremony, the National Anthem was performed. Thereafter, the Convocation was declared closed and the Convocation Procession left the hall. It is hoped that the passing batch colours the skies with their worthy innovations and achievements and carries on the legacy of this glorious institution. The ceremony will forever be etched in the hearts of all those who witnessed this spectacular milestone in PEC’s history.
Video Coverage & Gallery
Click Here to View Gallery
Top Stories
Project SCIC Inaugurated
Shri.V.P. Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator inaugurated Smart City Operations Centre on 25th June, 2017
SCIC Workshop
A workshop on Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) was organized by PEC University of Technology on 22nd February 2017
TBI Workshop
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC
All Top Stories
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement