Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Happenings
All Happenings
Music Club organises Chords
47th Annual Convocation
Traffic Awareness Human Chain
Interactive Session by Mr. Vikas Malhotra, Dy. General Manager, JK Cements
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Seminar By Mr. S.K. Aktar Ali Under the "Study In Europe - Information Session" Series
All Events
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Since the inception of the Smart City initiative by the Chandigarh Administration, industry leaders like CISCO, BOSCH , WIPRO, etc. and PEC, many  projects in the domain of smart cities have been undertaken by the faculty and students.
Delegates from Alliance Francaise  _ Regional Training _Smart  Cities _ Chandigarh  visited the Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) set up in PEC University of Technology to get an overview of ‘Smart City Operation Centre’. The delegates hailed from many cities  including Vietnam, France and Sri Lanka Bhubaneswar, Kochi, Pondicherry, Coimbatore and some other cities.
Prof.  Tarlochan Kaur, Head, SCIC and  Dr. Sanjay Batish,  Head, Computer Center and coordinator  SCIC   were present.  Dr Sanjay Batish  explained the functioning of the Smart City Operation Centre to the delegates. It included  smart traffic system that tracks the movement of buses, smart waste management system that depicts whether the dustbins are filled or not, smart lighting system that helps control the intensity of street lights remotely, to name a few.
After the demonstration, an enlightening Q&A session was held. Student representatives were also present and were encouraged to continue being involved with this ambitious project and come up with more innovative solutions to the real-world problems in the city.
Top Stories
Project SCIC Inaugurated
Shri.V.P. Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator inaugurated Smart City Operations Centre on 25th June, 2017
SCIC Workshop
A workshop on Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) was organized by PEC University of Technology on 22nd February 2017
TBI Workshop
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC
All Top Stories
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement