Training Workshop for Faculty Mentors on Induction Programme for New Students
| PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Happenings
All Happenings
Music Club organises Chords
47th Annual Convocation
Traffic Awareness Human Chain
Interactive Session by Mr. Vikas Malhotra, Dy. General Manager, JK Cements
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Seminar By Mr. S.K. Aktar Ali Under the "Study In Europe - Information Session" Series
All Events
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
Training Workshop for Faculty Mentors on Induction Programme for New Students
Albert Einstein has rightly said, “Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.” In line with this theme, PEC organized a three day Training Workshop for Faculty Mentors on Induction Programme for New Students that was commenced today in the auditorium of the University. It is being conducted by National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), MHRD under TEQIP-III project from 22nd to 24th September 2017.
The workshop was inaugurated by Dr. Uma Batra, Deputy Director, PEC. Prof. Anil Kumar Tripathi, Professor and Dean, IIT, Varanasi, Dr. Jagmeet Bawa, Coordinator  and Mr. Jatinder Narula, Incharge, International Resource Centre for Universal Human Values & Ethics, PTU were the keynote speakers who shared their valuable knowledge and experiences with all the participants. Dr. Sanjay Batish, Coordinator, Deans, HoDs and faculty members along with participants were also present during the inaugural ceremony.
Prof. Tripathi elaborated the idea to organize this workshop. It aims to develop sensitivity towards self and one’s relationships, builds awareness about others and society beyond the individual. To have harmony in society, one must have broad understanding of the society and relationships i.e. several meta-skills and underlying values are needed.
Dr. Jagmeet Bawa shared his remarkable journey in this field by giving his own example and talked about the importance of self- exploration. Mr. Narula highlighted the significant role of education in the holistic development of the society. He quoted, “The role of education is to facilitate the development of the competence to live with definite human conduct.” He also discussed about the content and process of education at length.
The workshop recorded a participation of over 90 participants from various NITs, Government colleges and universities across the nation.  All in all the first day of the workshop was highly enlightening and exploratory.
Top Stories
Project SCIC Inaugurated
Shri.V.P. Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator inaugurated Smart City Operations Centre on 25th June, 2017
SCIC Workshop
A workshop on Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) was organized by PEC University of Technology on 22nd February 2017
TBI Workshop
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC
All Top Stories
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement