Expert Lecture on "Nanoelectronic Device Fabrication and Characterisation Tools" | PEC University of Technology
Skip to main content
Webmail
Jobs
Tenders
RTI
Contact Us
Search
Home
InstituteHistory
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
News and Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders & Quotations
AdministrationBoard Of Governors
Director
Senate Members
Institute Functionaries
Presentations by Deans & Heads
ProgrammesUndergraduate
Postgraduate
Doctorate
Admissions
Academic UnitsDepartments
Centres
ResearchOverview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
In-House Projects
Consultancy
Courses and Conferences
Young Research Fellows Programme
Norms and Forms
Contacts
Campus LifeStudents
Facilities
Online Fee Payment
Happenings
All Happenings
Music Club organises Chords
47th Annual Convocation
Traffic Awareness Human Chain
Interactive Session by Mr. Vikas Malhotra, Dy. General Manager, JK Cements
Delegates from Alliance Francaise Training Smart Cities Chandigarh visit Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC)
Seminar By Mr. S.K. Aktar Ali Under the "Study In Europe - Information Session" Series
All Events
Institute
Institute
History
Vision & Mission
Campus
Location
Top Stories
PEC Anthem
News & Events
Rules, Guidelines & Forms
Tenders and Quotations
Job Openings
Quick Links
Alumni
Central Library
TEQIP III
Admissions
Placement
Tenders
Close modal
Expert Lecture on "Nanoelectronic Device Fabrication and Characterisation Tools"
The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh organized an expert lecture on " Nanoelectronic Device Fabrication and Characterisation Tools " on 22nd June 2017 which was attended by more than 50 UG, PG, Ph.D. students and Faculty members from various departments. The lecture was delivered by Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Shrivastava, who is currently working as Co-ordinator, Indian Nanoelectronics User Program (INUP) at Centre for Nano Science and Engineering (CeNSE), Indian Institute of Science Bangalore. Dr. Arun Kumar Singh, Assistant Professor, Electronics and Communication Engineering Department welcomed the speaker and introduced to the audience.
Dr. Shrivastava discussed about the various nano- and micro-electronic device fabrication techniques and characterisation tools used for the fabrication of electronic devices for wide variety of applications ranging from communication to medical to defence applications. He also briefed about various programmes under Indian Nanoelectronics User Program (INUP) at IISc Bangalore which are funded by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India. He further encouraged postgraduate and undergraduate students to visit IISc Bangalore to utilise various instruments available under INUP in order to complete their research work. He also showed a short video of these facilities and their applications.
The lecture was highly enlightening particularly for the younger generation of engineers/ researchers to understand about the advanced technological tools used by semiconductor industry. Dr. Sanjeev Kumar, Associate Professor at Applied Science Department appreciated Dr. Sanjeev Shrivastava to share his experience among the students and faculty.
Top Stories
Project SCIC Inaugurated
Shri.V.P. Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator inaugurated Smart City Operations Centre on 25th June, 2017
SCIC Workshop
A workshop on Smart City Innovation Centre (SCIC) was organized by PEC University of Technology on 22nd February 2017
TBI Workshop
Technology Business Incubator (TBI) workshop was jointly organized by the British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh and PEC
All Top Stories
Research
Overview
Research Groups
Sponsored Research
Consultancy
Collaborations
In-House Projects
Academics
Time Tables
Examination
Academic Calendar
Undergraduate Programme
Postgraduate Programme
PhD Programme
Facilities
Library
Computer Centre
Sports
Hostels
Medical Facility
Workshops
Information
E-Notices
Multimedia
Prospectus
CRIKC
Contact Us
Website Credits
Copyright © 2017 PEC University of Technology, Sector 12, Chandigarh, 160012
Web Editor
Anti-Ragging
Privacy Statement
Report Copyright Infringement